documents/documentation.md, before:

## SUMMARY



## AUTH v.1.0

The authentication it's realized with passport framework, email and password are stored in the database with encrypted passwords and randomly (but manually) generated salt for the time being, since there is no registration process yet.

The Credentials have been generated using https://www.browserling.com/tools/scrypt
and can be tested with its relative counterpart tool https://www.browserling.com/tools/scrypt-check

The login is performed with email and password, the system check if there is a related email in the *auth* table that has a correspondant hashed password, then, afther authentication succeds, fetch all the info of the user from the tables *student* or *teachers*, based on the role.


|   Email                     |   Password    |   Role   |
|-----------------------------|---------------|---------|
| mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it       | 200001        | student |
| maria.bianchi@studenti.polito.it     | 200002        | student |
| luigi.ferrari@studenti.polito.it     | 200003        | student |
| giulia.russo@studenti.polito.it      | 200004        | student |
| maria.rossi@polito.it       | 268553        | teacher |
| luigi.bianchi@polito.it     | 268554        | teacher |
| giovanna.ferrari@polito.it  | 268555        | teacher |
| antonio.russo@polito.it     | 268556        | teacher |


### SESSIONS

The session is initialized with these user data.
```
student:
{
  id: 200001,
  surname: 'Rossi',
  name: 'Mario',
  role: 'student',
  email: 'mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it',
  gender: 'M',
  nationality: 'Italian',
  degree_code: 'LM-1',
  enrollment_year: '2010'
}

professor:
{
  id: 268554,
  surname: 'Bianchi',
  name: 'Luigi',
  role: 'teacher',
  email: 'luigi.bianchi@polito.it',
  group_code: 'SO',
  department_code: 'DAUIN'
}

```



## Database Structure

STUDENTS
| id  | surname  | name | gender | nationality | email | degree_code | enrollment_year
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |--- |--- |---
200001 | Rossi | Mario | M | Italian | <mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it> | LM-1 | 2010

TEACHERS
| id  | surname  | name | email | group_code | department_code
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |---
268553 | Rossi | Maria | <maria.rossi@polito.it> | AI | DAD

CAREERS
| student_id  | course_code  | course_title | cfu | garde | date_registered
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |---
200023 | 02PQRST | Physics | 19 | 30L | 20-10-2018

DEGREES
| degree_code | degree_title
|---  |---
LM-1 | Computer Engineering

THESIS_PROPOSALS
| id  | title  | supervisor | cosupervisors | keywords | type | groups | description | requirements | notes | expiration | level | cds
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |---
0 | Sustainable Energy Sources Research | 268560 | 12345,67890 | Renewable Energy, Sustainability, Research | Assigned | Energy Research Group, Sustainability Research Group | Conduct research on sustainable energy sources and their impact on the environment. | Environmental Science, Renewable Energy, Data Analysis | This project aims to explore renewable energy sources and their environmental effects. | 15-11-24 | bachelor | LT-3


*If you need a tool to explore the DB, you can try 'DB Browser for SQLITE' for Windows Desktop*


## Useful ideas and future development needs

## React Client Application Routes

- Route `/thesis`: main page with the list of thesis. Different views for students and teachers
- Route `/proposal`: page with the Form to create a new thesis proposal or edit an old one
- Route `/login`: to perform login
- Route `*`: for non existing pages
## Main Component
- `Thesis Proposal`: after login it receives trough the props *All USER DATA FROM THE SESSION*, based on the role, the component shows and behaves differently.
- `Proposal Form`: This form is used to create a new Proposal adding all the necesssary field. If instead the teacher wants to update an existing proposal is sufficient to pass the old proposal object to this component.
- `ThesisProposalBro`: This component is used to show the list of all the thesis proposals to an user. It has a Selector and a Select component that permits the user to write and get suggestions for the filtering process. By choosing which filters to apply the user can get the list of thesis that satisfy  his preferences.
- `ThesisPage`: This component is used to show to an user all the important data about a thesis proposal.  If the logged user is a professor there is only a go back button (for now, later we will add the fact that we can modify it only if he is the owner). If the logged user is a student he has two buttons, one for going back and one for applyng to that specific thesis.


## API Server

## Template for API Desription

- POST `/api/sessions`
  - Description: request for login
  - Request body:
    - object {`username`,`password`}
  - Response: `200 OK` (success)
    - Response body:
      - object user {`id`,`username`,`name`}
  - Response: `401 Unauthorized`
    - response body:
      - {`error`:"Incorrect username or password"}

- DELETE `/api/sessions/current`
  - Description: Logout
  - Response: `200 OK` (success) : {}

- GET `/api/sessions/current`
  - Description: Verify if the current user is logged in.
  - Response: `200 OK` (success)
    - Response body: object user
  - Response: `401 Unauthorized`
    - response body {`error`:"Not authenticated"}

- POST `/api/newapplication`
  - Description: inserts a new application for a thesis proposal (student)
  - Request body: object containing the id of the student applying and the id of the thesis proposal and the id of the supervisorfor that thesis
    - object{`studentId`, `proposalId`,`teacherId`}
  - Response: `201 Created` (success), `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: number, indicating the number of applications inserted (should always be 1)

- GET `/api/proposals/:degreeCode`
  - Description: retrieves all the thesis proposals a student can view (based on student's degree code)
  - Request param: `degreeCode`, the degree of the study course of the student
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no proposals found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array of objects, each containing a thesis proposal
    - { `id`, `title`, `supervisor`, `cosupervisors`, `keywords`, `type`, `groups`, `description`, `requirements`, `notes`, `expiration`, `level`,
`cds` } 

- GET `/api/cosupervisors`
  - Description: retrieves all possible co-supervisors for a new thesis proposals 
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no internal or external co-supervisors found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an object containing two lists of strings, one for internal co-supervisors (other professors), one for external co-supervisors (for example company employees cooperating with the university)
    - { `internals`: [...], `externals`: [...] } 

- GET `/api/degrees`
- Description: retrieves all possible degrees a professore can insert a new thesis proposal for
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no data found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array containing all the possible degrees

- POST `/api/newproposal`
- Description: inserts a new thesis proposal
  - Request body: an object describing the proposal to insert
    - { `id`, `title`, `supervisor`, `cosupervisors`, `keywords`, `type`, `groups`, `description`, `requirements`, `notes`, `expiration`, `level`,
`cds` } 
    - Notes: 
      - The server automatically finds the right groups for the proposal (based on the supervisor and internal co-supervisor's groups), so an empty array can be passed for the groups field
      - The id is generated automatically, so any number can be passed for the id field
  - Response: `201 Created` (success), `500 Internal Server Error ` (insertion error)
  - Response body: the id of the newly created proposal

- GET `/api/applications`
- Description: retrieves all the applications sent for proposals of the logged if professor
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no data found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array containing all the applications: each application also contains the object representing the application th thesis and student details to be shown in the fron end
  - "enhancedApplications": 
    - [
      {
        - "studentId": 200001,
        - "thesisId": 3,
        - "timestamp": "08/11/2023 16:42:50",
        - "status": "pending",
        - "teacherId": 268553,
        - **"studentInfo"**: { info taken from teacher table },
        - **"thesisInfo"**: { info taken from thesis table }
     },
      // ... more entries ...
    ]


    

## Testing

Jest setted up for unit and integration testing.

### Implemetation for Integration

- setup process.env.NODE_ENV as 'test' in the integration test file
- import the server, which will start listening on port 3001
- the db file will create/open an in-memory db and populate it with the exported db in `thesis-management-project/code/server/db_TM.sql`
- connection to the in-memory sqlite database before every test case (in the file) start execution
- after all test cases the db is closed, the server is closed.

>*IMPORTANT*: keep the `db_TM.sql` updated as the `cleanDB/db_TM.db` is updated

### Commands

This commands are executed only on test files under `thesis-management-project/code/server/tests` directory

- `npm test`: runs all test 
- `npm test:unit`: runs only unit tests with coverage
- `npm run test:integration`: runs only integration tests with coverage

Commit message:

Add a dev idea for the future in the documentation

documents/documentation.md, after:

## SUMMARY



## AUTH v.1.0

The authentication it's realized with passport framework, email and password are stored in the database with encrypted passwords and randomly (but manually) generated salt for the time being, since there is no registration process yet.

The Credentials have been generated using https://www.browserling.com/tools/scrypt
and can be tested with its relative counterpart tool https://www.browserling.com/tools/scrypt-check

The login is performed with email and password, the system check if there is a related email in the *auth* table that has a correspondant hashed password, then, afther authentication succeds, fetch all the info of the user from the tables *student* or *teachers*, based on the role.


|   Email                     |   Password    |   Role   |
|-----------------------------|---------------|---------|
| mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it       | 200001        | student |
| maria.bianchi@studenti.polito.it     | 200002        | student |
| luigi.ferrari@studenti.polito.it     | 200003        | student |
| giulia.russo@studenti.polito.it      | 200004        | student |
| maria.rossi@polito.it       | 268553        | teacher |
| luigi.bianchi@polito.it     | 268554        | teacher |
| giovanna.ferrari@polito.it  | 268555        | teacher |
| antonio.russo@polito.it     | 268556        | teacher |


### SESSIONS

The session is initialized with these user data.
```
student:
{
  id: 200001,
  surname: 'Rossi',
  name: 'Mario',
  role: 'student',
  email: 'mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it',
  gender: 'M',
  nationality: 'Italian',
  degree_code: 'LM-1',
  enrollment_year: '2010'
}

professor:
{
  id: 268554,
  surname: 'Bianchi',
  name: 'Luigi',
  role: 'teacher',
  email: 'luigi.bianchi@polito.it',
  group_code: 'SO',
  department_code: 'DAUIN'
}

```



## Database Structure

STUDENTS
| id  | surname  | name | gender | nationality | email | degree_code | enrollment_year
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |--- |--- |---
200001 | Rossi | Mario | M | Italian | <mario.rossi@studenti.polito.it> | LM-1 | 2010

TEACHERS
| id  | surname  | name | email | group_code | department_code
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |---
268553 | Rossi | Maria | <maria.rossi@polito.it> | AI | DAD

CAREERS
| student_id  | course_code  | course_title | cfu | garde | date_registered
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |---
200023 | 02PQRST | Physics | 19 | 30L | 20-10-2018

DEGREES
| degree_code | degree_title
|---  |---
LM-1 | Computer Engineering

THESIS_PROPOSALS
| id  | title  | supervisor | cosupervisors | keywords | type | groups | description | requirements | notes | expiration | level | cds
|---  |---    |---  |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |---
0 | Sustainable Energy Sources Research | 268560 | 12345,67890 | Renewable Energy, Sustainability, Research | Assigned | Energy Research Group, Sustainability Research Group | Conduct research on sustainable energy sources and their impact on the environment. | Environmental Science, Renewable Energy, Data Analysis | This project aims to explore renewable energy sources and their environmental effects. | 15-11-24 | bachelor | LT-3


*If you need a tool to explore the DB, you can try 'DB Browser for SQLITE' for Windows Desktop*


## Useful ideas and future development needs
### Update get thesis proposals
Students need to get thesis proposals filtered by their course, and professors need to get only their own thesis proposals (so the ones containing the corresponding teacher id), so it might be a good idea to split the two apis into one since the filtering needs to be done on a different field. Tests need to be update accordingly.

## React Client Application Routes

- Route `/thesis`: main page with the list of thesis. Different views for students and teachers
- Route `/proposal`: page with the Form to create a new thesis proposal or edit an old one
- Route `/login`: to perform login
- Route `*`: for non existing pages
## Main Component
- `Thesis Proposal`: after login it receives trough the props *All USER DATA FROM THE SESSION*, based on the role, the component shows and behaves differently.
- `Proposal Form`: This form is used to create a new Proposal adding all the necesssary field. If instead the teacher wants to update an existing proposal is sufficient to pass the old proposal object to this component.
- `ThesisProposalBro`: This component is used to show the list of all the thesis proposals to an user. It has a Selector and a Select component that permits the user to write and get suggestions for the filtering process. By choosing which filters to apply the user can get the list of thesis that satisfy  his preferences.
- `ThesisPage`: This component is used to show to an user all the important data about a thesis proposal.  If the logged user is a professor there is only a go back button (for now, later we will add the fact that we can modify it only if he is the owner). If the logged user is a student he has two buttons, one for going back and one for applyng to that specific thesis.


## API Server

## Template for API Desription

- POST `/api/sessions`
  - Description: request for login
  - Request body:
    - object {`username`,`password`}
  - Response: `200 OK` (success)
    - Response body:
      - object user {`id`,`username`,`name`}
  - Response: `401 Unauthorized`
    - response body:
      - {`error`:"Incorrect username or password"}

- DELETE `/api/sessions/current`
  - Description: Logout
  - Response: `200 OK` (success) : {}

- GET `/api/sessions/current`
  - Description: Verify if the current user is logged in.
  - Response: `200 OK` (success)
    - Response body: object user
  - Response: `401 Unauthorized`
    - response body {`error`:"Not authenticated"}

- POST `/api/newapplication`
  - Description: inserts a new application for a thesis proposal (student)
  - Request body: object containing the id of the student applying and the id of the thesis proposal and the id of the supervisorfor that thesis
    - object{`studentId`, `proposalId`,`teacherId`}
  - Response: `201 Created` (success), `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: number, indicating the number of applications inserted (should always be 1)

- GET `/api/proposals/:degreeCode`
  - Description: retrieves all the thesis proposals a student can view (based on student's degree code)
  - Request param: `degreeCode`, the degree of the study course of the student
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no proposals found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array of objects, each containing a thesis proposal
    - { `id`, `title`, `supervisor`, `cosupervisors`, `keywords`, `type`, `groups`, `description`, `requirements`, `notes`, `expiration`, `level`,
`cds` } 

- GET `/api/cosupervisors`
  - Description: retrieves all possible co-supervisors for a new thesis proposals 
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no internal or external co-supervisors found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an object containing two lists of strings, one for internal co-supervisors (other professors), one for external co-supervisors (for example company employees cooperating with the university)
    - { `internals`: [...], `externals`: [...] } 

- GET `/api/degrees`
- Description: retrieves all possible degrees a professore can insert a new thesis proposal for
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no data found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array containing all the possible degrees

- POST `/api/newproposal`
- Description: inserts a new thesis proposal
  - Request body: an object describing the proposal to insert
    - { `id`, `title`, `supervisor`, `cosupervisors`, `keywords`, `type`, `groups`, `description`, `requirements`, `notes`, `expiration`, `level`,
`cds` } 
    - Notes: 
      - The server automatically finds the right groups for the proposal (based on the supervisor and internal co-supervisor's groups), so an empty array can be passed for the groups field
      - The id is generated automatically, so any number can be passed for the id field
  - Response: `201 Created` (success), `500 Internal Server Error ` (insertion error)
  - Response body: the id of the newly created proposal

- GET `/api/applications`
- Description: retrieves all the applications sent for proposals of the logged if professor
  - Response: `200 OK` (success), `404 Not Found` (in case of no data found),  `500 Internal Server Error` (generic error)
  - Response body: an array containing all the applications: each application also contains the object representing the application th thesis and student details to be shown in the fron end
  - "enhancedApplications": 
    - [
      {
        - "studentId": 200001,
        - "thesisId": 3,
        - "timestamp": "08/11/2023 16:42:50",
        - "status": "pending",
        - "teacherId": 268553,
        - **"studentInfo"**: { info taken from teacher table },
        - **"thesisInfo"**: { info taken from thesis table }
     },
      // ... more entries ...
    ]


    

## Testing

Jest setted up for unit and integration testing.

### Implemetation for Integration

- setup process.env.NODE_ENV as 'test' in the integration test file
- import the server, which will start listening on port 3001
- the db file will create/open an in-memory db and populate it with the exported db in `thesis-management-project/code/server/db_TM.sql`
- connection to the in-memory sqlite database before every test case (in the file) start execution
- after all test cases the db is closed, the server is closed.

>*IMPORTANT*: keep the `db_TM.sql` updated as the `cleanDB/db_TM.db` is updated

### Commands

This commands are executed only on test files under `thesis-management-project/code/server/tests` directory

- `npm test`: runs all test 
- `npm test:unit`: runs only unit tests with coverage
- `npm run test:integration`: runs only integration tests with coverage
